# Storage Service

## Introduction
After performing the basic user management procedures (create users and groups, assign users to groups, etc.) through [Entitlements Service](https://osdu.pages.opengroup.org/platform/security-and-compliance/entitlements/), the OSDU developer can use the Storage Service to ingest metadata information generated by applications into the Data Ecosystem. The Storage Service provides a set of APIs to manage the entire metadata life-cycle such as ingestion (persistence), modification, deletion, versioning and data schema.

## Record structure 
From the Storage Service perspective, the metadata to be ingested is called __record__. Below is a basic example of a Data Ecosystem record with a brief explanation of each field:

```
{
   "id": "data-partition-id:hello:123456",
   "kind": "schema-authority:wks:hello:1.0.0",
   "acl": {
     "viewers": ["data.default.viewers@data-partition-id.[osdu.opengroup.org]"],
     "owners": ["data.default.owners@data-partition-id.[osdu.opengroup.org]"]
   },
   "legal": {
     "legaltags": ["data-partition-id-sample-legaltag"],
     "otherRelevantDataCountries": ["FR","US","CA"]
   },
   "data": {
     "msg": "Hello World, Data Ecosystem!"
   },
   "createUser": "user@email.com",
   "createTime": "2023-03-28T10:31:09.890Z",
   "modifyUser": "user@email.com",
   "modifyTime": "2023-03-28T10:31:09.890Z"
}
```

* __id__: _(optional)_ Unique identifier in the Data Ecosystem. When not provided, the service will create and assign an id to the record. Must follow the naming convention: ``{Data-Partition-Id}:{object-type}:{uuid}`` and be no longer than 512 bytes.
* __kind__: _(mandatory)_ Kind of data being ingested. Must follow the naming convention: ``{Schema-Authority}:{dataset-name}:{record-type}:{version}``.
* __acl__: _(mandatory)_ Group of users who have access to the record. 
    * __acl.viewers__: List of valid groups which will have view/read privileges over the record. We follow the naming convention such that data groups begin with ``data.``.
    * __acl.owners__: List of valid groups which will have write privileges over the record. We follow the naming convention such that data groups begin with ``data.``.
* __legal__: _(mandatory)_ Attributes which represent the legal constraints associated with the record.
    * __legal.legaltags__: List of legal tag names associated with the record.
    * __legal.otherRelevantDataCountries__: List of other relevant data countries. Must have at least 2 values: where the data was ingested from and where Data Ecosystem stores the data.
* __data__: _(mandatory)_ Record payload represented as a list of key-value pairs.
* __createUser__: ID of the user who has created the record
* __createTime__: Time at which the record was created
* __modifyUser__: ID of the user who has last updated that specific version of the record (Not present in first version of the record)
* __modifyTime__: Time at which that version of the record was updated (Not present in first version of the record)

**Note**: `modifyUser` and `modifyTime` values are only updated for data-block updates using the `PATCH` or `PUT` APIs. Metadata updates using the `PATCH` API do not create a new record version nor update the `modifyTime` and `modifyUser` attributes.


## Schema structure
Another important concept in the Data Ecosystem Storage Service is __schema__. Schema is a structure, also defined in JSON, which provides data type information for the record fields. In other words, the schema defines whether a given field in the record is a ``string``, or an ``integer``, or a ``float``, or a ``geopoint``, etc.

> It is important to note that __only__ fields with schema information associated with are indexed by the [Search Service](https://osdu.pages.opengroup.org/platform/system/search-service/). For this reason, the OSDU developer __must__ create the respective schema for his/her records kind __before__ start ingesting records into the Data Ecosystem.

Schemas and records are tied together by the __kind__ attribute. On top of that, a given __kind__ can have zero or exactly one schema associated with. Having that concept in mind, the OSDU developer can make use of [schema service](https://osdu.pages.opengroup.org/platform/system/schema-service/) APIs for schema management.

> Note that all schema apis in Storage service are now deprecated, schema service is now used to manage schemas.

